[Music]
so you know what they say when the odds
of something happening are really low
it's like winning the lottery well what
would you say if I told you that one man
over the course of 30 years actually did
win the lottery 14 times in a row sounds
improbable but this is the real-life
story of a mathematical genius Stefan
Mandel it all began in the 1960s when a
poor Romanian accountant was trying to
make ends meet and feed his family his
salary was so low that he was getting
desperate living basically on 88 dollars
a month was torture Mandel couldn't find
a job with a higher pay at the time and
resorting to illegal activities was
against his moral code so he came up
with a solution that perhaps only he
could think of loitering now for most
people that would be lunacy I mean what
chance do you have one in a million I
don't think I'll surprise you if I say
it might be even less than that
depending on the number of tickets
distributed winning combinations and
some other factors he called himself a
weakened mathematician who's fascinated
with numbers and it showed he spent
every minute he had off work and family
life
analyzing papers on math and working on
his own algorithm and finally after
several years it was ready Mendel called
the result of his research combinatorial
condensation he didn't want to disclose
the method but he claimed that in a
lottery with six total winning numbers
he could accurately predict five of them
that brought the probability of winning
the lottery from one in several million
to one in several thousand a drastic
drop don't you agree using his algorithm
and having gained support of his friends
and relatives Mendel managed to buy huge
quantities of tickets with numbers that
were most likely to win and the risk
paid off he won the first prize which
was about nineteen thousand dollars paid
off his debts to everyone who helped him
and still benefited quite a lot
his net profit was for grant enough to
start a new life and that's exactly what
he did Mendel packed his family stuff
and went to Western Europe where he
moved from place to place for four years
such a lifestyle is tiring when you're
not alone though he finally settled in
Australia quite a far cry from Europe ha
there he decided to continue his
research into the lottery business and
succeeded
you see when he earned his Australian
citizenship he got access to every
Commonwealth resource available for
anyone with this status and that meant
he could take part in the UK lottery
system which happened to me much less
complicated than the Romanian one he
cracked before so he sat down took a
good long look at the system and after
some time got an idea
Mandell realised that in order to win
every time he only needed to buy all the
number combinations there were sounds
crazy I know but even so he made it work
with a very deliberate solution his plan
included six steps first he would
calculate the total number of
combinations possible in any given
lottery for example when where he had to
pick six numbers from one to forty would
have three million eight hundred
thirty-eight thousand three hundred
eighty combinations yeah
count him yourself if you don't believe
me second he would find lotteries where
the jackpot was at least three times as
big as the number of combinations this
was a requirement because otherwise he
would either win nothing at all or even
lose money you'll see why in a few
moments third he'd raise money to buy
every single combination this was the
toughest part of all he would convince
people his method work and persuade them
to sponsor his venture by buying as many
lottery tickets as they could afford and
sending them to him he promised to share
the winnings among the investors and
himself so after a while his ideas got
popular enough to attract hundreds of
backers willing to win some part of the
jackpot fourth he would print out
literally millions of tickets doing this
he ensured that every possible winning
combination would be
somewhere among those millions and that
in its turn made Mandel a multiple
winner of every lottery there was not
only did he win the jackpot but he also
took the second third and other minor
prizes fifth having printed out the
tickets he would deliver them to the
official dealers they had no choice but
to accept the tons of paper Mandel Hall
to them because however crazy it sounds
the whole operation was legal the
British Commonwealth and Australian
authorities just couldn't believe anyone
would be so bold as to do something like
this
Steffen Mandel was one of a kind and he
probably knew it himself and finally the
sixth step was to take the prize and
this one is exactly why he needed the
jackpot to be three times the number of
possible combinations you see after
winning Mandel had to pay his investors
their due that meant the more backers he
had and the more they paid the more
money he had to cough up after winning
the lottery but that wasn't all since
Mandel also had other costs to pay
including printing and logistics so
eventually he would be left with not a
very astonishing sum on his hands if the
jackpot had been smaller he would have
probably found himself with less money
than he had before the whole affair and
the prize amount the plan was incredibly
simple come to think of it but at the
same time it needed a lot of effort
Steffen Mandel worked day and night to
make it come true and over the years he
succeeded in creating what he called a
lotto syndicate a network of hundreds of
investors who believed in his method and
were more than willing to help with the
1980s came the computer era and Mandel
was more than happy to embrace new
technology he bought several computers
and a dozen printers that ran on an
algorithm he created and filling out the
combinations became easy-peasy by the
end of the decade he and his syndicate
managed to win 12 lotteries across
Australia and the UK but such a scheme
couldn't have gone unnoticed although
perfectly legal it bothered the
authorities that one person could
perform such a trick
so the lottery laws were changed twice
in Australia first they prohibited
printing tickets at home now you had to
buy them firsthand from a store and then
banned purchasing them in bulk that made
Mandel look to the west
despite his many successes they brought
modest amounts of money
what Mandel wanted now was to make
headlines all over the world so we set
his sights on the Virginia Lottery in
the u.s. it was 1992 and the jackpot was
more than three times larger than the
number of combinations 27 million
against approximately 7 million tickets
it was exactly what he needed given
credit for his previous achievements he
quickly gained support of over 2,500
investors each of them paying about
$3,000 to bulk purchase all the
combinations then he printed all those
tickets at his base of operations back
in Sydney and shipped the bulk to the US
that's where the big game started hired
couriers worked tirelessly all around
the state paying for tickets at stores
in cashier's checks worth $10,000 each
they were short on time but that wasn't
the big trouble the one that made Mandel
bite on his nails was that just hours
before the deadline for entry one of the
stores that bought tickets in bulk
became overwhelmed and stopped its
operation as a result out of 7.1 million
tickets bought by Mandel syndicate only
5.5 million were processed leaving too
much to chance there was nothing he
could do to ensure his victory and he
only had to hope none of those missing
1.6 million combinations were winning On
February 15 1992 the moment of truth
came the final draw on live television
Mandel's team were frantically rifling
through the combinations to see whether
one of them was the winner and at last a
triumphant cry
why the lotto syndicate hit not only the
jackpot but also the second and third
prizes along with dozens of minor ones
their overall winnings amounting to
about thirty million dollars it was the
greatest victory of Mandel's venture yet
and it did make international headlines
just like he wanted but as we know all
too well
money spoils while Stefan Mandel himself
became a millionaire his investors
received only a meager compensation for
what they had spent and they couldn't
even sue him for not carrying out his
obligations because technically he did
on a larger scale Mandel's actions
caused the US authorities to change the
lottery rules so no one would ever
repeat his stunt that made him the first
and last perp
he didn't really stop pursuing his Alfe
let me know down in the comments if you
learned something new today then give
this video a like and share it with your
friend but hey